Let's continue with our application by adding a new component the update place component updates placed
J.S. in the places pages folder is added therefore.
And then here the idea is to also show a forum where users can enter some data.
But for this application I want users to only be able to update the title or the description of a place.
So let's import react from react here and create update.
Place here as a component like this here and then export update place again.
That is what we did before now.
Update place is a component which of course should be loaded with routing.
So for now I'll just output some dummy content here and go to app j ust to add a root here instead last
page which we planned which we want to reach under slash places slash the idea of the place.
And then here we wanna India end well loaded add update place form so here in our route setup we can
add a new route and the path of that route is slash places slash and then the place idea.
Now one important word here this year and this path here of course are very similar if we would change
the order here and move Dad in front of places new we would have a problem because then every you are
entered that starts with Slash places and then has something after it would reach this route here because
if we had slash places slash knew here knew would be interpreted as a place I.D..
So in order to ensure that we don't cost this route to never be reached we have to render this route
first so that react ruder first checks whether we want to go into this route and only if we make it
past DESC check.
So to say we look for this route.
So the order matters here and then in here I want to render update plays so let's import that let's
import update plays from dot slash Places Pages update place like this and then update place is de component
we render here like that.
So simply as that does renders update place and now with that of course we can go back to update place
later we will then get the idea of the place out of the U R L and fetch information about this place
from a server and initialize our form with that place data.
Now we'll do that initialization part now but of course we can't fetch the place data from a back end
because we have no back and yet so for the moment I'll just get the I.D. from my server and then simply
load my dummy place data.
So here I will import use parents from react router Dom to get that actual place I.D. which is part
of the U.R.L. and we can get this here and store it in a constant name place I.D. by calling use parents
and then there will have a place I.D. field because place I do year because I named this dynamic segment
here place I.D. so we can extract deep concrete value for that segment by that identifier inside of
update place.
Now as I mentioned I didn't want to load one of my dummy places.
So here in user places we have that dummy places array we could export it and simply imported in the
other file or just copy and pasted which is what I will do here outside of the component just added
here and now we want to find a place with the idea that I have a new URL from that array of places.
So here
I'll have my identified place or whoever you want to call it which I get from dummy places by calling
find and there I will go through all places and find the place where the idea is equal to place I.D..
That's my idea here.
Now if we don't find a place for the provided I.D. for the moment I'll just return some things I'll
check if not identified place and return could not find place if well I could not find it maybe wrap
this in a div with a class name of center so that this is nicely centered we'll have better error handling
later once we have a backend and we connect this application to the backend at the moment we don't have
to it's we'll have to stymie fallback so let's assume we found a place though if we did of course I
want to render a form here and I want to render a form which I initialize with values from that place
so here let's return a form element again like this and India render all the inputs we need.
So let's import some inputs again up there I'll import input from and now again go to the shared folder
components form elements input and we'll all need to button from there so we can all import data already
and get the button from the exact same folder in form elements button with those imports added back
to the form in the form I want to render my inputs and d inputs I have.
Here is a title input and then also a description input because these should be the two pieces of information
that should be changeable that should be editable by users after a place was created.
So the elements here for the title is input.
Type is text I want have a normal text input the label will be title and validators will be an array
where I of course now need my validators so for Dad let's import from shared you tell validators and
I want to import validator require here and validator Min length because these again are the two validators
we need here.
So down there here I execute validator require as a function
we can also provide our error text where I say Please enter a valid title and of course on input where
we get the entered value and validity of that value.
Now the function we add here that's something I'll focus on later.
Of course we can use the same function as a new place but then we also have to add use reducer and everything
to update place and that means a lot of code duplication.
So maybe we can find a more elegant way there.
Now one other issue will have here is in this scenario when we're editing a place I actually also want
to set an initial value on the input and that's something we don't currently support.
I want to be able to set my value here too.
Well as I said some initial foreign value so initially to identify it place dot title for example.
So that's all something we'll need to support and therefore we all want to set an initial validity and
in the end set this to true here you could say because of course since we have a title initially it
initially also is valid already so we'll need to tweak our input component a little bit before we do
so though I'll add my description element here which is a text area type is therefore not required label.
Is this group action.
And here I need to mean length validator instead of min length of 5 and say please set a valid description
Min 5 characters and here of course I want to initialize this with D identified place description set
validity to true and we'll have to see what we do with on input so let's still at the button though.
They're the type should be submit it should be disabled if the form is invalid.
So initially it is enabled because initially this form is valid of course because we do have initial
values for title and description but we'll also have to revisit this logic.
And then here I'll say update place.
So as you can tell we have some work to do we need to adjust the input component to be more flexible
and accept initial values and initial validity is and we want to look into reusing some form code maybe
reuse does reduce rents on so that we don't have to duplicate so much code.
So let's focus on the input component though.